---
title: "Photophobia and Blind Gain"
date: "2020-03-14"
layout: "posts"
tags: blog transfusion pandemic
---

Today: a discussion about how we look at symptoms of blindness in a negative light, and a suggestion for re-thinking blindness as a wholly valuable aspect of experience.

* * *

Transcription of doctor's letter:

Dear Dr. B, RE:M-X MARIN.

Further to my previous letter regarding this nice little boy, we have continued to follow him up on a weekly basis. Matthew has becomes very light shy. His examination is quite difficult as a result. Sit lamp examination on the right shows profound corneal staining which has worsened since he had a further bleed inside the right eye. On the left sight, the slit lamp examination is difficult.
Nevertheless, I was able to obtain a good view of his cornea, anterior chamber, iris, lens and anterior vitreous. There is no suggestion of ocular inflammation whatsoever. His corneal surface is intact and there is no conjunctival inflammation either. I cannot account for Matthew's symptoms of photophobia. I do not think this is evidence of sympathetic ophthalmia. There is a potential risk of this in view of his past history. I have suggested that he continue to use the topical Voltaren and Prednisolone 1% drops previously prescribed to the right eye and that he re-attend in three weeks. I would like to see him sooner if his symptomatology worsens. Kindest regards.]
* * *

According to Wikipedia community editors, Photophobia is an abnormal intolerance to visual perception of light. It is an experience of discomfort or pain to the eyes due to light exposure or physical sensitivity. When [my eye doctor](http://transfusion.mxmarin.ca/this-nice-boy) diagnosed my photophobia, they were basing themselves on how I reacted to the bright directional lights used for examination. The word photophobia can mean morbid fear of cameras or seeing. It is aversion, an impulse to recoil from looking. In my regular life, photophobic days are when I won't make eye contact, leaving the house is less likely to happen, and I can't concentrate on anything. Photophobia is not unlike a migraine. It’s kinda like seeing multicolour TV static on those old bunny-ear sets. Over the years, I had a few eye surgeries to diminish eye-ball pressure. Back when the pressure was extremely high, I'd have photophobic days a lot. Lately it's uncommon. The only cause I've been able to pinpoint for photophobia in my adult life is fatigue. When I am tired, my eyes hurt. A straightforward formula. Following months working full-time at a computer, my tolerance to screens has diminished significantly in the past 4-5 years, so I rarely watch TV anymore. When my eyes are in pain, I use them differently. I'm not equipped for navigating life without sight, I lack practice. Still, my eyes ask that I take a break from staring into the world, and learn other ways of understanding. How about another reading of photophobia: not as pathological aversion to sight, but as revolt against vision by Blindness, as “blind gain.” I am inspired by the d/Deaf studies narration of deaf gain rather than hearing loss. Deafness and Blindness have been thought of as framing experience. Okay. Whose frame? Who's doing this framing? We are many asking these questions. Framing is a partial, banal, and unimaginative looking metaphor. It restricts possibilities outside of "useful vision" by constructing borders around possibilities for constellation. Looking appears as just a tool for knowledge. Unfortunately, this tool is weaponized. Sight is a basis of pathology: it creates normality, symptoms. Sight bores into reality, to prove it can be seen. Vision is a scope for framing reality in your sights, making reality a visible entity open to calculation and marketing. Vision is predatory, capturing images for language to narrow down by force. Looking has been used to choose the visible and construct the invisible. It is mobilized to create fear. Let's understand symptoms of vision loss as blind gain, in a conscious shift away from the regime of vision. Blind gain is looking's move beyond instrumental sight. Blind gain surpasses sight in order to reveal an invisible present within the ongoing moment. Blind gain is the feeling that we have much to learn from sightlessness. It is a sensitivity to the harms enacted by vision. It is a category for imagining beyond sight. It is an awareness that a shift in perception is a good thing. My blindness is always changing. How come I was told all my life that I had lost vision, rather than gained blindness? Some summer days, my blind eye can take the full brunt of the sun. Other days, a dim room or my phone's screen are enough to force both my eyes closed in defence against the light, so vision can't really look at anything either. These are those photophobic days, when blindness revolts. Blind gain creates interference. The pictures might come through, or not. Knowledge is open to all, and images are not life. To feel deeply, we must think beyond the visible. The sensation of flows in my body is enough proof that I am still alive.

* * *

This past week may be the first time I notice illness on other people's minds as much as on my own. In every gaze and on every mouth. On the metro dock, someone shouts: 'You're all sick!' I wonder: Are they so wrong? Most people are anxious. Those I've spoken with who claim not to be worried make light of global pandemic instead. I don't think hysteria is tenable, but each of us should hold a minimum amount of serious concern. I have no in-depth analysis of the situation. I think it's worth filtering out any terrifying rhetoric from your media diet. The news media and anyone with a social platform are not automatically authorities on pandemic. I recommend washing your hands, following the guidance of your institutions, and checking in with friends about how they're feeling. Physically, mentally, emotionally. Pandemic is political, but individual wellbeing can be a matter of simple gestures.
