---
title: 2020 Booklist
tags: blog, books
layout: posts
---

## In Reverse Chronological Order Of Date Finished, With Nothing Omitted, Including Re-Reads, let's go:

### December
[x] Potential History, Unlearning Imperialism; Ariella Aïsha Azoulay, 2019.
[x] The Chaos Protocols; Gordon White, 2016.
[x] Apocalyptic Witchcraft; Peter Grey, 2013.
[x] On The Genealogy of Morality; Friedrich Nietzsche, tr. Carol Diethe, 1997 [1887]
[x] Notes From A Dead House & The Gambler; Fyodor Dostoyevsky, tr. Constance Garnett, 2010 [1860, 1866]

### November
[x] Nta'tugwaqanminen: Notre Histoire, l'évolution des Mi'gmaqs de Gespe'gewa'gi; The Mawiomi Mi'gmawei of Gespe'gewa'gi, 2018.
[x] The Argonauts; Maggie Nelson, 2015.
[x] The Man With The Compound Eyes; Wu Ming Yi, 2014.
[x] Meeting The Universe Halfway: Quantum Physics and The Entanglement of Matter and Meaning; Karen Barad, 2007.

### October
[x] Tous Les Hommes Sont Mortels; Simone de Beauvoir, 1946.
[x] Le Corps Lesbien; Monique Wittig, 1973.
[x] Nietzsche and Anarchy; Shahin, 2016.
[x] L'invention des corps; Pierre Ducrozet, 2017.
[x] The Windup Girl; Paolo Bacigalupi, 2010.

### September
[x] Chantiers; Marie-Hélène Lafon, 2015.

### August
[x] Tool of War; Paolo Bacigalupi, 2017.
[x] Fair Play; Tove Jannson, 2007 [1989].
[x] Neuromancer; William Gibson, 1984.
[x] Désobéir; Frédéric Gros, 2017.
[x] The Drowned Cities; Paolo Bacigalupi, 2012.

### July
[x] The Blood Of The Earth: An Essay On Magic And Peak Oil; John Michael Greer, 2012.
[x] The Brazen Vessel; Peter Grey & Alkistis Dimech, 2019.
[x] Are You Listening?; Tilly Walden, 2019.
[x] Wendy (2014) + Wendy's Revenge (2016) + Wendy: Master of Art (2020); Walter Scott.
[x] Saga Compendium 1; Brian K. Vaughan & Fiona Staples, 2012-2019.
[x] The Tiger Flu; Larissa Lai, 2018.
[x] Guards, Guards!; Terry Pratchett, 1989.
[x] Land & Freedom; Seaweed, 2013.
[x] In The Wake: On Blackness and Being; Christina Sharpe, 2015.
[x] The Autobiography of Assata Shakur, 2012 [1987].

### June
[x] Desert; Anonymous, 2011.
[x] Baedan 2, v. Fr., 2019 [2014].
[x] The Water Knife; Paolo Bacigalupi, 2015.
[x] Split Tooth; Tanya Tagaq, 2018.

### May
[x] Inferno (A Poet's Novel); Eileen Myles, 2010.
[x] The Red Goddess; Peter Grey, 2007.
[x] The Three-Body Problem; Cixin Liu, tr. Ken Liu, 2014 [2008].
[x] The Hard Tomorrow; Eleanor Davis, 2019.
[x] Atmospheres of Breathing; eds. Lenart Škof & Petri Berndtson, 2018.
[x] Star.Ships: A Prehistory of the Spirits; Gordon White, 2016.
[x] Paradise Rot; Jenny Hval, tr.  Marjam Idriss, 2018 [2009].
[x] Fledgling; Octavia Butler. 2005.
[x] Snowden's Box: Trust in the Age of Surveillance; Jessica Bruder & Dale Maharidge, 2019.
[x] Apocalyptic Witchcraft; Peter Grey, 2013.
[x] The Faggots And Their Friends Between Revolutions; Larry Mitchell, illustrations by Ned Asta, 2016 [1997]

### April
[x] Taking Sides: Revolutionary Solidarity and The Poverty of Liberalism; ed. Cindy Milstein, 2015.
[x] Pandemic!; Slavoj Zizek, 2020.
[x] Fullmetal Alchemist v. 1-27; Hiromu Arakawa, 2001-2010.
[x] Gun Island; Amitav Ghosh, 2019.
[x] Et l'une ne bouge pas sans l'autre; Luce Irigaray, 1979.
[x] When The Sick Rule The World; Dodie Bellamy, 2015.
[x] L’herbe du diable ou la chair des dieux ? La prohibition des drogues et l’inquisition; Alessandro Stella, 2019.
[x] Harry Potter 2, 3, 4, 5.

### March
[x] King Kong Théorie; Virginie Despentes, 2006.
[x] Harry Potter 1.
[x] Les Jolies Choses; Virginie Despentes, 1998.
[x] Se Défendre: une philosophie de la violence; Elsa Dorlin, 2018.
[x] The Lord Of The Rings (all of it); Tolkien, 1954-1955.
[x] The Parable Of The Sower; Octavia Butler, 1993.
[x] Gore Capitalism; Sayak Valencia, tr. John Pluecker, 2018 [2010].
[x] Baise Moi; Virginie Despentes, 1993.

### February
[x] Un apartement sur uranus; Paul B. Preciado, 2019.
[x] Ship Breaker; Paolo Bacigalupi, 2010.
[x] The Dispossessed; Ursula K. Leguin, 1974.
[x] A Billion Black Anthropocenes or None; Kathryn Yusoff, 2019.
[x] Material Feminisms; eds. Alaimo & Hekman, 2008.
[x] The Speaker For The Dead; Orson Scott Card, 1986.
[x] The Road; Cormac McCarthy, 2006.

### January
[x] Flight Behaviour; Barbara Kingsolver, 2012.
[x] I Hope We Choose Love; Kai Cheng Thom, 2019.
[x] Blackfish City, Sam J. Miller, 2018.

What a year, huh!
