---
title: "At The Hospital On The Day Of The Climate March"
date: "2019-09-27"
layout: "posts"
---

First written partially in a waiting room, in part in a cafe, and sent out via personal email. _Updated somewhat for The Transfusion._

## Sept 27 2019

This Friday I had my 13th blood test of 2019. That doesn't even seem like that many. I only had to wait about 10 minutes on the 14th floor, the oncology ward in the sky with its giant windows and magnificent view of the St Laurent. Then I had a needle stuck in my arm for all of 30 seconds. Routine. Usually, I get to leave afterwards, but that day I had an appointment 12 floors down, in gastroenterology, where the waiting room is windowless and most people are not in fact facing life-threatening disease. Maybe that's why we don't get windows. My appointment was at 10:45. I arrived early, and I waited 150 minutes. I did not see a doctor. 'Can you come back next week?' Due to a system error, the MD didn't get notified of my arrival. So the time had passed. She couldn't see me today. Next week. Imagine if I already had a real job. Still, now I have a doctor's note for the day of the climate march, which is appropriately political in and of itself.

Doubtless, many of the people there, like me, wished they could be marching. We too want to feel a part of that currently-forming mass, the soon-to-be-seething demonstration. _As it turns out, the demonstration was rather a celebratory send-off for Gaia than a seething act of revolution._ Instead, we are sitting in chairs, waiting patiently for expert examination and diagnosis, hoping our bodily prognosis is better than that of this earth. Bitter irony I have not yet resolved, facing the obstacles to action imposed by a body that begs for societal reform but has only just the energy to survive and remain calm. Perhaps calm is a coping mechanism, because to lose calm is to fall into anger, despair, unsustainable emotions when there is rent to be paid and loved ones to support.

I tell my eco-capitalist friend that the system has failed and he asks me if I have any Solutions. I do not. 'Perhaps a project for the future', he replies. I tell him we can't all be economic theorists and he tells me of his aspirations for a PhD in economics. I look forward to your dissertation about numbers, friend. Meanwhile, instead of solutions to problems I barely have the energy to face, my projects exist at a human scale. For a cause, I take up the suffering of my self and my loved ones. There is no other way to exist in a world that is ending but community support. Nothing to be done except mutual support, redistribution of wealth, and creation of space for grief and joy. I _did not feel like_ an activist. I am just another person with personal burdens to bear. I do not know what the future holds, only that I will continue to love, and one day I will die. Many other things will happen too, but those seem insignificant to me now.

I hear within myself: You aren't doing enough. That voice will always be there, fighting the harsh reality of personal limitations. Maman reminds me that everyone has limits they must face, that we must all contend with ourselves and do what we can within our communities. She's right. Some New Yorker staff writer said on the radio that one of the great projects for anyone who is alive right now is to try and be as human as possible within dehumanizing systems. She's right, too. So what now? For now I have a headache and I've already had a coffee. For now I keep my loved ones close. For now I don't buy things I don't need. For now I get an office job so I don't have to stand outside in the cold. For now I try to get enough sleep. For now I keep my medical appointments. For now I keep a journal. For now I appreciate the beauty of a rainy day in early October. For now I breathe. For now I send an email to a selection of BCC'd friends who may be feeling some of the things I'm feeling.

With care,  
em
