---
title: "The Oncology Ward In The Sky"
layout: "essays"
---

Biking west along side roads, I whiffed the hospital complex  two blocks away. Industrial cleanser reaches my nose through the black cotton mask. Lock up, walk the final 50 feet to the CHUM. People cluster as we attempt to form a line and follow the signposted instructions. Disinfect hands. Everyone's masked. Security guards mill about, and a nondescript hospital employee guides people where they need to go.

_Do you have an appointment? Where are you headed?_

Centre Intégré de Cancérologie, 14th floor, I've got a blood test to do today.

_Oh, you know you have a separate entrance and elevators right? Here, come with me. By coming in that way, you won't have to pass through the entire hospital and touch stuff that's supposedly disinfected even though no one really cleans it._

Thank you, I say and ponder the horror of that last statement as I make my way through to the Oncology-Elevators, disinfecting hands again though I haven't touched anything. Two of us are whisked up in a socially-distanced elevator ride. Maximum occupancy of 4, one person in each corner, guarding a floor-sticker. Upstairs I am greeted by a nurse who asks the usual symptom-probes. The nurse's hands brush up against mine as she leans in to spray sanitizer and disinfect me once more. I didn't even press the elevator buttons. A volunteer in a bow-tie walks me down the long waiting room to point out the blood-work reception desk, which has not moved in the 6 months since I was last here. I was supposed to return sooner, but there's a pandemic going on as I write this.

The _centre de prélèvements_ is a resolutely functional and hygienic place. Blood draws occur 7am-3pm M-F. Wait times are short for patients who get blood taken here up high. I ask a nurse how many blood tests a day they're doing lately. "It depends, but a little over 100." Out the window I see the sky, the city, beyond. Nearby another patient sits down and opens a book: The Most Beautiful Quebecois Poems. I glance back out and a small brown-speckled spider weaves its web across the glass. From where I'm standing it's bigger than the construction workers, bigger than the pedestrians, almost the size of the police cruiser two intersections away. Standing there, refusing to sit in a waiting-room chair, I wonder what all the poetry in the world is worth when compared to this single arachnid.

They've been working on adding a third even taller wing to the CHUM first completed in 2017. Before then, I got my blood tests at _l'hôpital notre-dame_, which opened in 1880. The CHUM built now has another high capacity blood-draw clinic on the main floor of D-wing but I've never sat there in that glass box within the heart of the skyscraper complex with no view outside for patients. No, for some reason I take the elevator. Once though I stayed overnight at the Nouveau-CHUM in an ER hallway on a cot under fluorescents. It was mid-march of 2019. In the morning my managing haematologist is on duty and comes to see me at bedside. I say I'm fine. He says _You're not fine listen to these numbers we'll up your dose of Revolade and deliver intravenous iron also request an appointment with the gastroenterologist because surely if you're this anaemic your stomach must be bleeding._ Alright then. As he discharges me, the doctor jokes about how nice the rooms are up on the 15th floor, as if hospitalization is the right thing to chuckle warmly about. I think he's well-intentioned and has a good grasp of haematological medicine, but I was glad to leave, go home, and spend a month in bed resting as the weather turned warm outside.

Sharp insertion somewhere along the arm. Middling. My auto-immune system has been known to eat away at platelets and bleed under its skin. When platelets are particularly low, I get acutely aware of my skin's surfaces and folds, distracted by specks of the outer world that brush up against it. Skin feels egg-albumin thin. The lightest pressure might bruise and the lightest scrape might tear. The circulatory system is a series of veinous corridors, highways, canals, transit arteries carrying blood along. Internal bleeding's a slow dissolving of venous layers melding into a contiguous ocean of blood. Carefully mapped out roads falling into disarray as in-betweens flood. Microscopic terror as a shortage of platelets leads to tidal waves overcoming the sea walls under maintained, decimated by an overzealous team of white blood cells. If this shows up to the naked eye at all, it's usually as 'petechiae'; tiny red pinpoints in the skin, little red-blue dots along the arms, the legs, around the groin. Mini-bruises. Even invisible illness is subject to sight. ITP's primary symptoms are: excessive bruising, bruising in excess of what one would’ve expected for the amount of trauma, or bruises that are totally unexplained. When my daily life is clinically asymptomatic, the blood work makes sure to rectify the notion that everything is normal. Platelet counts under the norm are my everyday and have been for 19 years. A normal amount of blood platelets is 150'000-300'000 per microliter of blood, and my counts in 2019 alone were between 9000 and 427'000.

Can we stop counting anytime soon? Medicine is obsessed with blood. Put it under an electron microscope and find out just how its balance turns out. Break it down into categories for testing, count out with frightening exactitude just how much of this that and whatever else my body happened to contain at XX:YY on XYZ day. My haematologist's job is precisely to make sense of the minutiae contained within blood. Logic takes a crack at making sense of our lifeblood, and I can't help but laugh.

I wear a mask indoors and in close quarters but have given up on masking myself for a stroll to the park. My body is trying its best with what it knows of the long-winded lie that is that there is self and there is other. I trust the precautions I am taking are enough for me and those I interact with. I trust the air with my immune system. But I do not trust my body to visit a hospital right now. I am angry that it has to be this way, and I am scared. I do not know what happens to my body when the numbers stop determining how it exists, but I do not want to measure the passing of time with numbers and test results.

My partner brings their world to me and we share stories whispering back and forth of then there here now conspiring liquidity atmospheric coalitions brewing. Limbo feels longer and shorter every single day. Is today the last day of the week or the fifth what's the date? We weep in turns.

Breathing is a reminder of life as well as a way of giving thanks. Over facebook messenger I ask my estranged father what worries him right now. How many people will die, are dying, he says.

Mae and I have gone on some walks, sat in some municipal parks. Other people breathe nearby. I wonder where they've been recently. How many of them bring a hospital's airspace with them to the park? Just out of the allotted physical range, but I'm aware that they are also breathing as they talk and laugh and drink and smoke sometimes making the wind visible for an moment. Breathing's taught me that my own egotistic duality may cease to exist as I inhale and exhale with the world atmosphere. Wind catches my pores and carries my body dust along with each of yours so we conspire regardless of distance bridging vast expanses across nothingness in order to be together. I live very far from the front lines. I don't know what it's like to live with combat nearby. All I know of such places has come to me through images videos words, most of my senses spared the ample truth smells, the shock. I know only a fantasy, fictitious war. Yet war and I share an atmosphere. We breathe within one another, please welcome the medics wherever there is fighting. What is there to gain from the veritable assault on human sensory capacity, from mass death? I desire counter-offensive measures but who doesn't? Anyone whose ever been hurt has tried retaliation, tried hurting back. Lately my reading has taken me into potential histories where men still wreak havoc but others resist and defend themselves in so many ways. The air we share is risky, so we determine how much risk we're willing to handle at a given moment. I conspire to emit air which filters out suffering and positively impact any brief encounter. I share the results with the inevitable passersby no matter which precautions we take.

I choose to continue sharing air. Circumstances may make that difficult or impossible. I choose this consciously, so I do not bow before inevitability. The inevitable does not rule me. Why should it? I treat those inevitabilities I have learned as parts of the air and blood streams. Death, disease, love, hope are known to me. Stating the obvious helps me stay grounded I guess, I think it's because I'm used to my life-force being a numbers game. You know like stats in an RPG trying to min-max numbers to attain optimal efficiency. We're basically machines anyway right like so many dudes have said that, seems ridiculous though idk. I think we're more like mycelia or maybe trees.


Atunement to lived bodies has shifted. Touch screams, loud, when the body feels unknown skin. Brushed up against a cashier's hand as they hand me a receipt, their mouth beyond the counter's plastic shielding. Our breaths shouldn't mingle, I'm wearing a mask and hopefully they are too. Surface boundaries are tricky. Skin keeps the blood in, but it doesn't keep the world out.
