---
title: "Navigating Physical Exercise"
date: "2020-05-21"
layout: "posts"
---

The bike's a black and grey chromoly steel single-speed with red handlebars. Good tires decently inflated because the streets of so-called-montréal's rife with debris glass construction cracks and there are few things worse than getting a flat on the other side of town. Bike lanes are useful but when there's a crowd I'd rather speed with the fossil fumes. Automobiles with their conditioned air pockets exude pollution that right now I'd rather breathe near instead of other humans. How sad. On the news each day we see how pandemic has slowed industry and the skies are clearing. No one seems to respect social distancing guidelines in this city's bike lanes, I roll around feet strapped in as I relax my legs and let myself coast. I feel free. Body strapped to metal I am thrilled to have hills and gravity as teammates or adversaries. Any slip-up is mine. If I hurt myself, I chose that possibility. I just remain aware and navigate the obstacles that present themselves. Weighing expectations for what my body can do against reality happens on a rolling basis, always subject to sickness. I have to navigate what is a feasible amount of exertion, which activities are off the table. From the time of my diagnosis certain games have been no-go because of the risks involved in rushing around with a dozen other people focused on a ball. So, I turned to mostly solitary pursuits. To the chronically ill child I was, this seemed like a way to gain control over my health. It's long been a little too easy to pop my blood vessels. But last year I started dancing regularly. One saturday in November I danced all day in a crowd writhing with a hundred others at [mtl's annual contact jam](http://contactimpro.org/?-Jam-annuel-&lang=fr). 8 months prior, I could hardly walk alone for 15 minutes. There was bliss in sharing gravity's embrace. If I tried dancing for a full day again tomorrow, recovery may prove difficult. I could probably dance for an hour, but I feel no urge to dance alone. That was a care-free weekend, after which I took 3 full days off the office job I'd gotten to pay bills so that I could begin to recover. I've realized my body isn't fragile, but adaptable so long as I don't overdo it. Somedays I feel powerless, afraid, off-balance, like my presence cannot but have a negative impact on my world. I know that I can harness my capacity to learn, focus it towards positive change in the world around me, being a community member. What if things just keep getting worse? If there's no more casual community? What if chance & happenstance are no longer viable ways to meet people? But of course they still are. The web of randomness is woven through all situations. The best I can do right now is focus on strengthening myself and honing my skills. Now I'm not wage-labouring, but I have lost care-free days. Physical wellbeing is at stake as well as mental. My days sometimes feel like a rush from one basic necessity to another. Self care stops being a source of joy when I’m barely keeping my head above water. Now a day mustn't go by without me checking in with myself. Throat clenched chest weighed down stress induced muscular soreness, so I move around shake them up lots to feel and nothing but time with which to do so. Swing bounce in place shift the hips ribcage & upper abdomen's tightness tension. From the head down spinal tap through the stomach along the hip joints and oozing out by the leg-feet corridor. A steady shifting awareness I am here tuning in across spacetime. Rest, rest. I want/need to feel closer to my friends, and maybe more up to date with the world.
