---
title: "Little Golden Cat"
date: "2020-05-13"
---

Mae slides by and I sense the displaced air, a noticeable shift in housebound stillness. I do nothing but breathe and pick up the energetic charge of 2 human bodies amidst home appliances and neighbours hidden away by walls. My breath whispers: How simple, inhale exhale over again the first to last thing we'll ever do. It's the repetition that counts, one breath is nothing for the body, we need air uncounted yet we account for a chemical regime, a specialized diet of far more than oxygen which is poison anyway in overdose. The air we share is a floating, transparent pharmacy not-so-carefully calibrated, and precisely weaponized.

I'm lucky when I discern her specific scent from the others, when my sense of smell isn't distracted by some noise. If the fridge hums I can't make her out. Above the stove there's one of those golden plastic cats whose arm waves metronomically with a little solar cell panel. A plastic _Maneki-neko_ souvenir trinket. A seated cat, a bib around its neck, a bell or two, a bastardized japanese _koban_ coin, a paw raised. Literally a "beckoning cat," the swinging arm's tick-tocks are always audible, like a clock that announces no time in particular when I deign to look over but rather speaks only to its own presence on that stove here in so-called montreal. I don't know whether the cat ever stops beckoning a timeless now. All it seems to accomplish is a reminder that the old stove's analog time-set is dysfunctional.

The iconic beckoning cat appears to have originated in late Edo period feudal japan, and can now be acquired wholesale on Alibaba at the astonishing rate of up to five-hundred-thousand units per month, shipped out of Xiamen, a city in the southeastern China beside the Taiwan Strait. The Maneki-neko in this apartment was manufactured in China, passed quality control and imported to America, so say the embossments and sticker on the bottom, before being purchased and turned into a souvenir in this home. There are 2 screws in the base that let me take it apart so I do, in the hopes that peering into the lucky cat's innards will reveal something essential about the nature of time itself. What I find instead of a hollow metaphor is another series of plastic and metal components that come together to make up the swinging arm mechanism. Likely harvested anywhere on earth, mined out of deep time's accretion in the dirt and forged out of globalized myth--the golden cat is storied. The Maneki-neko is a symbol of good fortune, arising out of a story involving a destitute shop, temple, inn; the poor proprietors take in a hungry and neglected cat. After being cared for and loved, the cat ventures out front, sits there and beckons to passers-by, thus shifting the fortunes of the establishment and bringing prosperity. Whose idea was this cultural export? Did they grow up with their own cherished cats either animate or carved? Either way they turned around and sold myth down the river for capital gain because it seemed the logical thing to do. I don't blame them but that doesn't stop me from despising the swinging arm sometimes when I'm just breathing but then its tack tick tack tick sticks to my eardrum and I can't shake off this little cat's little hand. I mention to Mae that I'm writing about this cat and learn that apparently she bought it years ago in NYC chinatown when roaming the streets as tourists with friends. One of them was leading the group astray and everyone was frustrated but ultimately souvenirs were purchased, packed up in suitcases, brought back to NB and eventually moved to MTL. So the cat is here, from everywhere, signalling no time at all.

Sometimes when I'm lucky I lose my sense of object permanence. Out of willful forgetfulness comes a void full of nothing from which to learn. Things fade in and out of thingness and cease their clutter. For a time I get to forget what surrounds me, some of it, and breathe as if I weren't aware that the objects that inhabit my day-to-day are fragments displaced from the earth entire.
