---
layout: posts
title: Vein to Vial (Part 1/3)
date: 2021-01-14
tags: blog essay transfusion
---

Over the next three weeks I'll be sharing an essay I wrote in early 2020 that was due to be presented at the Aesthetics of Anxiety colloquium at Concordia University in last march. The event was cancelled, and the publication of the related journal does not seem likely. As such, I've elected to share the essay here, that the ideas may breathe freely. Works Cited at the end of part 3. I hope you enjoy.



## From Vein to Vial and Back Again: Towards a Transcorporeal Theory of Intravenous Transfusion.

>*“What are some routes from human corporeality to the flesh of the other-than-human and back again?”*
> Stacey Alaimo, '*Trans-Corporeal Feminisms and the Ethical Space of Nature*' , in Material Feminisms (2008)
	
This essay is concerned with a particular goal: narrating one of human blood's many trans-corporeal maps of transit, thus sketching one response to Stacey Alaimo’s question. With the fertile notion of transcorporeality, I’m navigating the human body's material inextricability from its world. My focus is on blood plasma as it gets extracted, processed into a blood-product, and administered through intravenous transfusion. Plasma becomes ‘Privigen®’, an Immunoglobulin used to treat a number of illnesses; a liquid node in what has been termed the “haemato-global assemblage” by anthropologists. Human plasma is a part of so-called human flesh, of that liquid which moves within and keeps us alive, but where does plasma originate? Is it ‘from’ the bodies which physically produce it? And where does it go next? I have chosen this line of inquiry because I have previously been the recipient of this particular drug. I write here as an individual node among others in the haemato-global assemblage within which plasma exists.

Plasma is a straw-colored liquid that carries red blood cells, white blood cells, and platelets. Plasma is made up of water (about 90%), proteins and clotting factors (8%), and small amounts of salts, glucose (blood sugar) and lipids (fats). Plasma, separate from whole blood, is only accessible when carefully harvested by trained professionals using specialized equipment in a process called plasmapherisis. There is no synthetic plasma manufacturing to replace the human body. 'Privigen® Immunoglobulin Intravenous (Human) 10% Solution for Infusion' is one product amongst a class of drug called ‘IVIG’ for short, manufactured by the ‘Global Rare Disease Biotech Company’ CSL Behring, which collects “donated” plasma in over 170 centres across the US and Germany. 

Let us make no mistake: Healthcare is an industry and “health” is a political fiction. Both serve technocratic imperatives, founded on a model of the human body within which the organism is little more than a machine. Healthcare is one of the ways in which normalizing systems of oppression fabricate docile bodies; “health” is a fiction which states that a certain class of body is acceptable, and others are not. I am against the health-healthcare system as defined by practices and discourses that diffuse “pharmaceutical, governmental, insurance, and media interests” (Klein 15) rather than tend to the wellbeing of sick people. To be against health in this sense is to engage in a protest analytic, to deconstruct propagated mythologies.

On their website, CSL markets plasma as “A Potent Weapon Against Diseases,” and “A Life-Saving Solution,” which is “Tracked Every Step of the Way” as it makes its way from Plasma Collection Centres through Plasma Testing Laboratories located in Knoxville, TN, and Göttingen, Germany, as well as Plasma Logistics Centres in Indianapolis, IN, and Mesquite, TX. They explain the process thus:

>>These logistics centres are state-of-the art facilities... for receiving, storing, and shipping plasma that is donated at our collection centres. The inventory is controlled by sophisticated ... software that is tied into our donor management computer system ... The Laboratories test millions of plasma samples each year, ensuring the safety of the plasma ... we have “vein to vial” control, tracing each plasma unit from the initial donation, to laboratory test results, to logistics and on to the fractionation facilities—and ultimately to the product made from the plasma you donate. ([Testing and Processing Plasma](https://www.cslplasma.com/about-csl-plasma/testing-and-processing-plasma))

Nearly 70% of the world’s supply of plasma originates from the United States, which is the only country in the world to be “totally self-sufficient” in plasma-products with a “mostly for-profit plasma industry” (Slonim et al. 185). CSL Plasma’s donors in the U.S are pulled into “donation” by the lure of “Make Cash, Save Lives,” in that order ([Video: ‘Make Cash, Save Lives’](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DfLi3QBuUWU)). The language used in articulating the act of plasma “donation” is gravely misleading. A plasma donor’s interiority is drawn out and stretched across the haemato-global assemblage’s complexes of capital accumulation, ongoing systematic oppression, and dispossession. Plasma Collection Centres choose to call the sale of bodily material a donation, linking it to acts which people undertake for no monetary compensation, tellingly revealing the industry’s desire to appear as falling in line with the purported moral values of Healthcare. The campaign to incite donations is one by which people are encouraged to willfully divest themselves of their plasma, so that it may be rendered as raw biological material to be exploited for capital gain. Perhaps it would be more appropriate to call these clinics Plasma Extraction Centres, since extraction demands dividends from raw material. Yet the firms do not market themselves as extracting surplus from the bodies of their “donors.” Explicitly reminding ourselves that the companies are driven by profit opens them back up to a certain critique of the industry of health. 

By aligning themselves with healthcare, a plasma collection firm renders their operating strategy opaque. According to the rhetoric deployed, the system is in place to grant “donors” the privilege of doing good. Technoscientific capitalism would have us believe there is no wrong in the necessity for certain low-income individuals to sell their plasma in order to pay bills. The onus of choice is apparently placed on the individuals “donating,” but many living in precarity have no other options. This profit-driven branch of the haemato-global assemblage renders the body's interiority into a wholesale product, constructing a multibillion dollar industry out of “donations.” This essay currently lacks the work and scope necessary to explore specific ways in which this assemblage works to erase histories of White-settler-master colonialism in the americas and elsewhere. 

In the marketing of these centres, “donors” appear as an undifferentiated class of people, without accounting for the uneven distribution of risk, of differential governance across empire. Donors are all subject to pharmacopornographic apparatus, wherein power’s tendrils exist with/in the human body through “soft, biomolecular and digital technologies” (P. B. Preciado 142, [my translation]). “Healthcare” is the pretense upon which this system operates. “Health” is the fiction which is mobilized each day to allow this. Plasma donor bodies, sick bodies, health and healthcare are all component parts in the wider haemato-global assemblage. I propose that we bring the notion of the assemblage into trans-corporeal territories, allowing for plasma’s material agency in becoming and transfusing Privigen®.


* [Part 2/3 Coming January 21]()
* [Part 3/3 Coming January 28]()

