---
title: "I Reviewed This Nice Boy Whose History You Know Well"
date: "2020-01-05"
---

All the letters doctors exchanged on the state of my condition in the first few months following my [eye injury](https://mxmarin.substack.com/p/transfusion-03-total-hyphema-and-childhood) and [ITP diagnosis](https://mxmarin.substack.com/p/transfusion-01-general-guidelines-for-the) have a few things in common. The doctors adopt a formal and clinical tone, getting right to the facts of injury, illness, and treatment. My doctor knows his intended audience: Other Doctors. MD to MD, no extraneous explanations are required. Why, then, does each letter stress that I was such a nice boy? How is it medically relevant to the treatment of my eyes whether I’m gendered or nice? Being gendered by medical authority carries weight. Medical sex as well as gender presentation impact how a patient is treated by their doctors. I have to wonder whether, on the flip side of the gender binary, Dr. C would have referred to me as a Nice Girl, or added some kind of diminutive? Nice Little Girl, for good measure? I can only speculate, but it seems likely enough. The words we use have everything to do with our environment, and middle-aged men risk carrying subtle hints of misogyny everywhere they go, including their medical practice. In the treatment of ITP, I can understand how the possession of a uterus impacts treatment once menstruation age has been reached. I’m struggling to wrap my head around why my eye-care specialist felt the need to specify, in each of his letters, that I was a Nice Boy. There’s an easy enough explanation: in general, north american society genders all its children, in all walks of life, in a million contexts where it doesn’t matter. This is just one more example of that, but I’m not satisfied by that answer. Maybe the language is less stilted than the more clinical _The Patient_, but it is ultimately less accurate to call me a boy than to call me a patient. In operation reports, I am The Patient. The function of the documents is the same, isn’t it? The letters and the reports? Both provide information about the status of me, Patient/Nice Boy, in order for other doctors to know how things were going with my condition. The major difference I can pin down stems from whether or not I was conscious during the time period being referenced in the document. If I was awake, as during a checkup, I was Matthieu the Nice Boy. If I was under anaesthetic, as during surgery, I became The Patient. During routine checkups, I had a voice. I answered questions. Shared how I felt, whether I was in any pain. During surgery, I had no feeling, lost all subjectivity. The purpose of our interactions was fundamentally different. From Nice Boy to Patient all thanks to some intravenous drugs. At least Patient stands the test of time. I was only a boy because I’d been told my whole life that I was a boy and didn’t know I had the option to disagree, to dissent. I was a boy because terms of endearment like ‘my little man’ have been levelled at me forever. I was a boy because I got Jurassic Park toys and Hot Wheels and Beyblades and those are Boy Toys. I was a boy because I short hair. I was a nice boy because I listened to the doctor. The linguistic dissonance between the first sentence of the letter and the rest is absurd to me. Is the use of ‘Nice Boy’ a way to show empathy? To acknowledge that I am not only a collection of symptoms, despite what the present letter would otherwise have us believe? By acknowledging my niceness, my boyness, my doctor is saying: This child has a life of some kind outside our scope of knowledge, outside of medicine. To deem me merely a Patient would have reduced my childhood to illness, pathology and nothing else. To be a Nice Boy in my doctor’s letters means he was concerned with my wellbeing. I remember the ophthalmology waiting room at BC Children’s Hospital in 2001. Ground floor, its own wing. Those appointment were separate from the ITP checkups, though I’m certain there was some overlap. I was at the hospital almost daily that first year. My eye specialist, Dr. C., who wrote this letter, was a very good doctor and a kind man. Week after week I sat in his examination chair while he prodded my eyes with ophthalmic instruments and did what he could to save my sight, my Useful Vision. He failed of course, but that was no fault of his.

* * *

Happy new year, dear reader! We’ve embarked upon a new decade. I am posing myself many questions in this time of renewal: What do I want to bring with me into 2020? The past couple of weeks have been spent trying to ground myself, to find a sense of inner balance. My family members all wish one another Health before all else. They sense, without necessarily understanding it, the pervasive sickness of our time. We all hope to provide totemic words of protection. I spent a lot of time reflecting on this newsletter. I’m glad to have embarked upon this journey, yet I’m persistently doubting it, and doubting myself. I’ve only just begun, yet I’m assailed with inner questioning. Is this endeavour worth anything? What good does it do to tell my story? I’m scared. I’m afraid that this year won’t bring us anywhere but further along a downward spiral into total devastation, and if that’s the case, what good does it do to write an email newsletter? Grim thoughts for a time of supposed renewal. There are no easy answers to these questions. I have to trust myself, trust my instincts. Some part of myself has thrust me along this path and I should do well to discover where it leads. My own story is the only one I feel able to tell at this point, and it’s as good a place to start as any. I know that I feel a profound need to share my own experience. I’m a product of our era, of my own age and upbringing in digital space. The urge to share myself with the networked world is strong. Last year I retreated from social networking sites. Since then, I haven’t had many outlets for the sort of sharing the net allows. I’d been hunting for an alternative to bite-sized clickbait algorithmic-hellspaces. Those spaces–Facebook, Twitter, IG–are designed to keep us scrolling and engaged with the platform by any means necessary. It’s well documented that this means showing us always more provocative content from people and publications every further removed from our actual selves. I couldn’t handle it anymore. Maybe I’m too sensitive, but my mental health and general emotional state could not take the information onslaught. For the sake of staying up to date with friends, I stayed for a long time. Now, if I log into FB or Twitter, I notice how much worse I feel within 5 minutes. The best alternative I could come up with is this newsletter. Here, while I may not be up to date on everyone’s comings and goings, at least my digital self continues to exist. There is great value in existing online, in having a space here to call one’s own. I long for the web as it was before my time, before the monetization of every click we make. As it could have existed even today, had advertisers not gotten involved and the imperative of capital accumulation not muddied the waters of free information exchange. I recognize the potential of social networking sites to create connections that wouldn’t otherwise exist, to form and aid communities in their attempts to grow closer. The internet had, still has, such utopic potential. Potential for really levelling the information playing field. As it stands now, with the mainstream platforms profiting off our behaviour, the scales are too uneven. I just don’t see lasting human connection as compatible with the extraction imperative of current social networks. In 2019 many informative books on the subject were released. [Team Human by Douglas Rushkoff](https://www.indiebound.org/book/9780393651690), a short and accessible introduction to the situation, is a manifesto for human connection and empathy in the face of dehumanizing systems. [The Age of Surveillance Capitalism: The Fight for a Human Future at the New Frontier of Power by Shoshanna Zuboff](https://www.publicaffairsbooks.com/titles/shoshana-zuboff/the-age-of-surveillance-capitalism/9781610395694/) is a systematic analysis of the current state of affairs and a history of the internet’s fall into the clutches of capital. Equal parts informative and terrifying. Last year I decided to stop playing, to boycott extractive platforms and trust that my friends will still invite me to the events that matter. In 2020 I am continuing to seek a balance between life on and offline, between the wonders of networked connectivity and the necessity of taking a step back. I’m slowing down, reading long texts, wandering the streets, meditating every day. I’m attempting to balance staying informed with setting healthy boundaries for the tsunami of information available at any given moment. I don’t think ignoring the news and pretending everything is Just Fine is a solution (as my family would have me do), but engaging in the frenzied pace of internet discourse is too overwhelming for me. For the time being, the best solution I’ve found for myself is right here, among these words in your inbox.
