---
title: "It Is Not The Time"
date: "2020-01-19"
layout: "posts"
---

I am very concerned with the experience of spending extended amounts of time in hospitals, whether that be repeat visits for treatment as an outpatient or extended stays. The following was first written in response to a stint of both treatment and hospitalization in 2017, during which I took some photographs. I am sharing the first of those here today.

I’ve got a notion of time crawling but the room stays the same. I patiently examine clocks distractions and infusion pumps as they move and mark different passings. I use the clock to remind myself that my clinical purgatory is impermanent and localized. While the body sits, sensing, imbibing the fluid hung from stainless steel and served in pristine glass bottles or gently deflating plastic sacks.The pump serves to regulate my donor-plasma-derived blood feast, making sure I don’t consume too much, too fast, too little, too slow. The translucent saline drip opacifies the superstructures inherent to (con)temporary cure. Observing the drip, I easily forget that though the needles seem free, this watery lifeblood implicates me in the systems I hate. Outside the frame, an intravenous catheter is feeding me [IVIG](https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC1809480/) and saline solution. It was not the first time, it was not the last time. I just happened to be in a photographic mood that day. Freezing the drip… drip… of the drug in a photograph felt like a way to gain ownership of the situation. I am an expert at sitting in hospital chairs, but still have no feeling of agency, for my many years of experience. Sitting, cannulated, plenty of places I’d rather be, I am resigned. I’ve accepted that my doctor knows what my body needs, if little else of the world. World which, outside these clinical walls, it rich with joy and sorrow. But none of that matters now. Now, I am sitting in a blue chair among blue walls, bleeding red in purple veins while crystal clear plasma fractionations make up the difference. Go on sitting, I’m sure it’s comfortable. Have you ever tried a LUMEX? Best designed chairs around. Sit for hours in total comfort. Standard issue LUMEX Clinical Care Recliner, designed for blood-work versatility. Drawing, letting, and transfusing are all viable activities. As a child I was called a vampire, I embraced it. I figure a vampire is simply one who requires liquid supplementation to survive; one whose blood does not support them on its own; one whose body is deeply vulnerable to specific circumstances. Receiving intravenous treatment implicates my body in vampiric economic processes facilitated by biotechnology. Plasma-derived blood feasts are involuntary, necessary. Unlike the mythical vampires, haunting minds and prowling hunting grounds, my offerings come to me, served up through hollow needles handled by steady hands. By snapping the photo I stop medicine’s relentless drip, and create a fragment of time in which my body is mine and not-mine, inhabited by countless plasma cells of dubious origin. Soon afterwards, my body is mine again. My vampirism is short-lived, if recurrent. It leaves traces: needle marks, legal restrictions. My lovers cannot donate blood; I am considered risky. Combining so many bodies in a transfusion leaves me brimming with Otherness of the sort blood banks write off. According to those keepers of frozen life, my blood is impure, it is a poisonous potion that risks infecting others. Time does not stop, sat in the blue chair, but it does change. The clock changes, bends to the body’s will. It is the body that determines how long it will take to fully absorb the dose, how long I will be seated. Drain the sterile bag of its precious contents and claim them as part of myself. It feels like I have no say, I am the witness. I observe the process and feel the newness within me. Whose body is it, anyway?
