---
title: "B-12 Adventures"
date: "2020-01-31"
---

All my body’s resources have been somehow drained. We play catch-up every day of the week, friends. The able-bodied among you can hardly conceive this sort of fatigue. This is a not a normal sort of tired. This fatigue doesn’t care how many hours of sleep I got last night (8ish), what I’ve eaten today, or for my intake of stimulants. This fatigue is the result of a hobbled immune system swinging its swords at the wrong targets. Backed into a corner by viral infection, it lashes out. Not quite at random, but with poor enough aim that viral symptoms persist much longer than in a ‘healthy’ body, and most of my platelets bite the dust at the same time. My immune system feels like a dormant weapon of mass destruction. Days get long when your blood is unbalanced. I’ve been sitting in a chair all day and still managed a headrush. I need to pack more snacks. I need to get my standing desk fixed so that I have the option to stand up, get the out-of-balance blood flowing, keep my energy up. Seems my anemia is bad these days. My B12 must be at an all-time low, considering I’ve been prescribed a monthly shot. I’ve elected to give them to myself this time around. I do not have enough free time to go to the clinic for a shot every month when I have the option of doing it at home. I learned what to do through accumulation of lived experience, plus a youtube video. I’ve now administered myself the shot 3 times. The first attempt was a misfire. I froze. I was scared. Never before had I held a thin metal-tipped plastic syringe in my own hands. Worries that swam through my mind: what if I accidentally contaminated one of the elements of this procedure? Will I inject myself with bacteria? What if I inject myself with air alongside the medicine? They say fresh air cures all but I’m not sure that applies when taken intravenously. So many needles in my life, always in other hands. So, on the first attempt I scrapped the supplies. I made it all the way to the part where the syringe was primed with fluid, needle in my arm, ready to deliver its load. I took a few deep breaths, to no avail. I could not overcome my nerves on that first attempt. The second time around was a success. I realized that with my scheduled flu shot coming up, it was imperative that the B12 be taken before the influenza, otherwise I would not be in a position to recoup from the shot. This was back in November. So on my way home from work, I stopped at the pharmacy and purchased a new syringe for the hefty fee of 40 cents (I felt silly putting such a small charge on my credit card. I am endeavouring to carry cash instead.) I got home, and removed the many early-winter layers of protection I was wearing, dropping them haphazardly around my tiny apartment in my rush to get the B12 over with. First, I washed my hands, then I gathered up my supplies. Essential: 1ml SANDOZ Vitamine B12 1000MCG/ML (DIN 00521515), which had cost me 8,37$ and had not gone through on my insurance for reasons I don’t quite understand. Also generic isopropyl alcohol sterilization pads, the 1ml syringe, and a finger-shaped Band-Aid™ for afterwards. I chose the only part of me that has enough fatty tissue, in order to avoid injecting into muscle, and prepared the injection site. As I approached the needle, it brushed up against one of my fingers. This was almost enough for me to call it off then and there. Self-administered shots are nerve-wracking business. What if I had compromised the needle’s sterility and ended up with blood poisoning? I took a deep breath, and carried on. Ultimately unfounded worries. Before I knew it the needle had been inserted and the syringe plunger was waiting for its action. More deep breathing. In: ready yourself. Out: slowly contract your left hand’s thumb so as to inject the B12 fluid. I watched it happen in the mirror, hardly feeling, caught up in breathing, pushing away the fear. In certain contexts the old mantra rings true: Fear is the mind killer. I feared that I was unable to safely take the necessary steps. I wanted to defer to a Professional. It boils down to this: I feared that I hadn’t the ability to take care of myself. That’s always the fear when faced with a new challenge. Will I be able to do what is required in order to continue living? So far the answer has always been yes.

* * *

Somewhat recently I found that my first academic publication is officially online, and I’m very excited to share it with all of you today!! This paper, titled [There Is No Pornography In Hospitals: The Hospital As A Desexualizing Space](https://thescatteredpelican.com/2019/11/14/there-is-no-pornography-in-hospitals-the-hospital-as-a-desexualizing-space-2/) stemmed from concerns with some of the ways in which the institution of western medicine disallows the expression of certain forms of sexuality. I first wrote it nearly 2 years ago, and a lot more remains to be said and thought. Lately I’ve been wondering how the experience of illness can be mobilized more directly as a form of resistance against the relations of power which lead to the conditions discussed in the article. These meditations will be for another, probably several other, issues of The Transfusion, but I’m curious if you have any thoughts as well. I’m not so tired right now as I was when I wrote the first part of today’s Transfusion, but I certainly don’t have the stamina to, say, march in a protest, or participate in most other forms of Visible Political Action. Chronically Ill artists, writers, and activists have been grappling with this very issue for some time, and there’s no easy answer. Taking part in collective action is something that inevitably looks different for each individual. For now, I just keep learning.
