---
title: "Thirty Eight point Five degrees Celsius"
date: "2020-04-22"
layout: "posts"
---

When I have a fever and my temperature reaches 38.5C, I go to the hospital. Usually, best practice while experiencing fever is to let the body sweat itself out. Fevers are a natural broad-spectrum defence mechanism, very effective, just stay hydrated. For me, best practice is not to let the fever run its course, because a fever contains too many unknowns. Coronavirus has brought fever into sharp relief as a symptom. Fever, for all its utility, is a source of fear.

* * *

_H1N1/09_ I didn't get the vaccine and wasn’t alive for the 1918 outbreak. No antibodies, so I catch swine flu late June. 40C fever near delirious in Ottawa children's hospital bed, I remember my friends are on a school trip to Toronto strapped in at an amusement park to experience excessive gravity. I may have played video games, I’m not sure, I don’t remember.

 _Spring 2017_ Dreamt I'm strutting across the lobby of a hotel where I work retail, pass the co-working space the bar the pool table and push aside the hardwood door to one of the binary water closets. Find the room padded with sweltering black velvet walls floor ceiling all black all soft and I begin to melt as I walk forward in a vain attempt to relieve myself in black porcelain but instead I woke up to find my bed soaked in sweat. I take my temperature for the second time that night — 38.6C. It’s 2am, I gather up my necessities and take the night-bus south to l’Hôpital Notre-Dame because I'm too broke for a cab and maman is in another country for a conference. Calmly waltz into the ER take a number wait my turn, they've got my file. Earlier that night I tried to lie to myself like _oh im just dehydrated i shouldn’t have had that last beer_ but I felt fever’s omens before going to bed. First few years at conc-U basically each did the same thing to me as I overworked underslept and ignored my body’s desire for rest until it was time to check in as a patient. Whisked through admissions they've got me in a bed on an IV drip of broad-spectrum antibiotics and saline drip to keep me hydrated although No, we don't know what I've caught. Whatever, fine, do a blood test a blood culture try to figure it out if it matters. I’m there a couple of days. A week later, I finish reading On Photography for the first time and get a third degree burn on my right foot. Back at the ER the nice doctor prescribes me morphine but I smoke tea instead. Platelet counts way too low, time to take a month off work defer some exams and visit some family. Platelets, for the uninitiated reader, are a component of blood generated in bone marrow that serve to clot blood and heal wounds. In other words: lacking platelets, we bleed. 3 years later, stuck on digital, I haven’t developed much of the film I photographed.

_September 2001_ I am the first laparoscopy-splenectomy at BC children's hospital in Vancouver. For 1/2 a chance of inducing ITP remission, I undergo surgery to remove my spleen. Biologically, the spleen is a sort of filter for blood. It's not all that vital until you get an infection, at which point it is a very useful line of defence. Spleen removal is a common treatment for Immune Thrombocytopenia, because the spleen occasionally destroys too many platelets. For me, it was a partial and temporary cure that left me taking oral penicillin tablets for the better part of 15 years. When I was little I couldn’t swallow the pill so maman crushed it up with a mortar and pestle and I swigged it with orange juice and some positive reinforcement. Despite the antibiotics, we regularly rushed to the hospital in the middle of the night. The problem with not having a spleen is the speed at which an infection might turn deadly. That's why, when I have a fever of 38.5C I go to the ER. Usually it's just the flu. When my immune system starts doing its job — eliminating infection — it also remembers just how much it despises my blood platelets. The result is that any infection leaves me with dangerously low platelet counts, sometimes in the "may spontaneously bleed internally" range. I unfortunately am not afforded the possibility of waiting it out and seeing whether my condition improves on its own. Yeah odds are _it's fine i’ll just sleep it off_ but what if it isn't? That question mark is why fevers are for me an Action Required situation

_Summer 2012_ A lethal heatwave sweeps north america but Maman and I are on vacation in europe. I think it's the second or third time I'm over there and I'm having fun but I miss my girlfriend. In Paris I took lots of rainy pictures with a camera my high school teacher Mme B lent me for the summer. We leave Paris by TGV to Montreux, Suisse. After a couple of days in bourgeois paradise we drive up to visit friends in Château-d'Œx, famous for its Balloon Week. I'm fine when we set out on the road but after lunch I start feeling ill and am feverish by the time we make it to Maman's friend's home. We think I'm just tired so I go to sleep it off after taking a picture. I don't have a solid grasp of how much time passes. I play that old Pandemic 2 flash game in a fever haze on a slow ethernet connection in the swiss alps. Something catches my eye. Virtual september 2008_: first victim dies in china - china begins burning bodies to prevent infection_. I take a screenshot, highlight the back-to-back event dialogs, make a post ironically titled _Boy, that escalated quickly_ and get 537 comments. My bedsheets are changed regularly as I sweat profusely and the adults decide it's time to get me to a hospital when blood shows up in my stool. The friend we're staying with is a healer. One afternoon I sit shivering across from her and we talk. She peers into my 15 year old eyes and reveals to me my own fear of death. She doesn’t have the medicine to stop the bleeding but we hug and I feel impending doom leave my body in a rush of cathartic relief _tout va bien aller_ I'm hyperventilating my lips quiver like my pulse is wholly contained in that patch of split pink I can't speak I try to breathe my head rushes with light and the world implodes. I come back to my body slow and suddenly I'm aware of sunshine through wide windows in a room full of books. Maman and I take a small mountain train back to Montreux it's a beautiful day but I devote my time in peaceful delirium to wondering what death feels like. Smalltown doctor says they don't have the meds I need but they do a blood test anyway so that the results might be in sooner. Soon enough, I'm in on a stretcher in an ambulance on a highway watching the swiss scenery go by out the back window there's not a lot of traffic. Maman is scared but relieved that the travel insurance is taking care of the bill. I spend a night or two in Lausanne's high-tech university hospital and there's WiFi so really I'm decently happy. The nurse takes my electronic music recommendations before I check out but he was probably just being nice. I'm well enough to get on a plane so we fly back to Ottawa and to this day we do not know what I caught in the mountains.

 **Image: picture taken in the Swiss alps, July 2012. Foreground of verdant field leading up to a large brown cabin overlooking a hill, with bright green window shutters open but windows closed and white curtains pulled. Further away on the other side of a second grassy hill, dense forest hugs the mountain slopes partially lit by sun as cloud-shade cuts across. Background of mountainous peaks sparsely wooded against cloudy sky of cotton-candy clouds.**
