---
title: "Happiness Through Acceptance Of The Ongoing Battle"
date: "2019-12-08"
---

I just read _I Hope We Choose Love: A Trans Girl’s Notes From The End Of The World._ by Kai Cheng Thom. I recommend it, here are some thoughts and feelings it brought up for me: Parallels can be drawn between trans experience and chronic illness, but drawing up a list won’t get at the truth of it. So many knots in my chest leave me uneasy. I try to sit with them and feel them out but untangling grief and fear is often more than I can do alone. I try not to retreat into numbness, with its familiar haze. When I let myself be numb to life, I lose the magic that is _feeling_. Emotions are exhausting, but at least they are true. I’ve been sick so long that I forget what an effect illness has on life. Let me be clear, when I say illness, I don’t mean the occasional cold/flue. I mean long-term, recurring, full of unknowns no matter how many test results pile up in a file. When I speak of illness I mean the ever-present sense of bodily doubt, of not knowing whether it will ever ben possible to trust my body to function properly. Radical Left politics of anti-ableism would me accept my illness. My leanings toward a zen worldview would as well. My mind is riddled with self-judgement at my body’s inability to keep up, ever after all the years. I figure maybe I’ll Get Better. Better implies an inherent lack in sick bodies. Better posits that sick bodies are unable to conduct themselves in valuable ways. Better states that illness is morally inferior to health, and so it is for its bearer. What is truly meant when stating Get Better is: get back to working. Better implies that a body’s worth is determined by their ability to generate surplus value. Better makes clear that value only exists outside the cycle of chronic illness. Better posits that there is no value in the process of perpetual healing. Better affirms ‘you’d be happier if you were healthy’. Better reminds us that sick bodies are to be pitied for their state of being. I say “function properly”, as if my body was a machine with specific tasks it must do by design. “Keep up”, as if I’m running a footrace and my body is dragging down the team. The truth is that my body cannot and will not ever operate at any rhythm or capacity other than its own, and society under capitalism doesn’t think that’s enough. I’ve burned out every other year since turning 18, and each time I get back on my feet after some period of unproductivity, I wonder how to better make Being Productive a sustainable endeavour. This is inherently flawed thinking, and is the result of capital’s insidious grasp over my mind and everything else. Inherently flawed, because I am thinking about my body as the problem, as a puzzle to be cracked. “If I only eat right, exercise, meditate, don’t drink, take my meds, sleep 9 hours a night…” THEN I’ll Be Well enough to exist as a frictionless member of society. I spend a lot of my time concerned with the consequences of ingesting X Y Z food or media object. I feel so porous, affected by everything I consume. My desire to get better is only rivalled by my rage at the inescapability of the system that perpetually makes unsustainable demands of all bodies, chronically ill or otherwise, human or otherwise, living or otherwise. I try to develop all the right habits and I still find myself in the midst of crisis. I scramble for self-preservation only to find that everyone else is sinking too. No amount of internalized wellness rhetoric changes that my body is prone to random bouts of self-destruction and that the structures that guide labour and consumption as they exist today make no affordances for predictably unpredictable health. I currently work 40 hours a week because it seems like the thing to do. Because is seems like having a steady paycheck that lets me do more than just survive may be worth it. But what is it really worth? Is it worth my mental health to take any job with a salary and dissociate 8 hours a day? Is it worth the energy commitment to not have enough left over to see my loved ones in crisis even kind of regularly? Is it worth the feelings of isolation that come with being a closeted trans enby in a Progressive™ office environment? The kind of place that has social-inclusion policies in place, though their efficacy is doubtful at best. Is it worth creating friction in the system in order to Live My Identity? Or would my identity be better lived elsewhere? Among the mythical Queer Community? As I write this, I’m about to embark on an overnight laxative journey in order to adequately prepare myself for a gastroscropy+colonoscopy scheduled for tomorrow morning. A look inside my bowels to check if I’m bleeding. They’re looking for the cause of my anemia, as if ITP wasn’t enough of an answer. I suppose that Medically Speaking, it isn’t. I agreed to this, as I always do. I’m afraid of the consequences of not following medical orders. Even though I doubt anything will come of this or the next tests, I agreed. I do not presume to know how to balance my body’s chemical load better than my MDs. I feel how the variety of medications affect me, but lack deep knowledge about their biological functioning or the targets we are trying to reach. I know this: a normal amount of blood platelets is 150‘000-300‘000 per microliter of blood, and my counts in 2019 have been between 9000 and 427‘000. When I do what I’m told, they stabilize; when I forget to take meds, omit to fill a prescription, or otherwise live life counter to medical recommendations, they plummet. Having chronic illness means giving up a degree of agency that many people take for granted. That is, a degree of agency that most white, cis, heterosexual, able-bodied adults take for granted. Bodily autonomy is as classed, sexed, racialized, and abled a privilege as anything else. I don’t have control over what doctors decide is necessary for my body. That’s distressing, but I still have trust that the public-system specialists who examine me have my Health (nebulous concept) in mind. The same cannot be said for many other ways in which bodily autonomy is taken from individuals. The medical violence I experience as a byproduct of treatment is of the softest sort. I am white. I’m working class, but I haven’t fallen through the cracks. I am, for all intents and purposes in the medical system, a man. I am not out there seeking hormone replacement therapy. And why not? Fear, always rearing its ugly head. I barely have the energy to make it through my weeks as a cis-passing chronically ill Queer. I am not about to compound that with the social burden of coming out to everyone everywhere all the time. I don’t have the courage. Time to go take my meds.
