---
title: "A Visit To The Blood Doctor"
date: "2020-02-16"
layout: "posts"
---

I saw my haematologist (blood specialist) recently. Well, first, I saw a Resident doctor under his tutelage. This Resident had an air of confidence in her knowledge and nervousness with holding down the clinic. As I reported on my recent health and confirmed the information on file, she took simple notes in neat handwriting. She then asked me to wait while she went to speak with my doctor. The young Resident returned with Dr. O, a kindly middle-aged man with whom I have a good working relationship. He commented that I look well, to go along with my numbers, which have been positive as of late following a tumultuous year. We have the data to back this up: in 2019 I got 18 blood tests. Not an an all-time high for me, but a serious amount nonetheless. Dr. O noted that my hair seemed especially curly. "You're always reinventing yourself." he quipped. "Well, I'm young." I replied. We always exchange some pleasant banter. I'm probably one of his younger patients. He's been following my case since I was 19, and has seen me go through a number of phases and changes. When I first met Dr. O in 2015 I was hospitalized. I had recently moved to Montreal and didn't have a specialist yet. It was my second semester of university, I had overworked myself and caught influenza. He got me sorted out. That year, I was transfused a few rounds of Intravenous Immunoglobulin, which got my platelets to shoot up briefly before plummeting again. There's a lot to be said about IVIG, but that's for another time/place. For now, suffice to mention that it's a common treatment to [ITP](https://mxmarin.substack.com/p/transfusion-01-general-guidelines-for-the) and other medical conditions, and that in my case it is not effective treatment. Later that same year, Dr. O got me on a more recent medication, which I still take now. Presently, I am prescribed 75mg of Revolade®, manufactured by Novartis Pharmaceuticals Canada Inc. This medication's active component is 'eltrombopag', which is a 'thrombopoietin receptor agonist'. I have been taking this medication at varied dosages since mid-2015, and I do not understand what its categorization means, or how it acts within my body. The pills come in 25, 50, or 75mg compositions of different colours. I speculate that the pills are different colours because it makes them easily identifiable on the factory floor, so that a 50mg pill has a rather slim chance of finding itself in a packet of 25mg pills. In fact, I have never seen such a mixup, so I suppose their system is working. No, mixups in dosage have always come from human error on my end. I'm pretty good about remembering to take my meds now. It's baked into my daily routine, but sometimes I'll forget. I'll be out of the house with plans to stay elsewhere overnight, and didn't bring my pills. Or I waited too long before calling the pharmacy to renew, so I've got none left, and it's Saturday right now, and the pharmacy doesn't get any deliveries on Sunday, so they won't have my Revolade until Monday because it's a special order. In 5 years, they've never just happened to already have it in stock. Again, I'm not certain why that is, but can venture a guess that I'm one of very few, if not the only, people around here who have it prescribed. There's also the matter of cost, of how expensive it would be for them to order it without the Régime d'Assurance Maladie du Québec (RAMQ) or private insurance footing most of the bill. About 4500$ per 28 days' supply. Thankfully, a yearly bureaucratic process grants me access with minimal monetary expense. If Revolade were not currently my only viable option, I would not be on this drug. It's side-effects & precautions sheet, included in every box, is the size of a poster, with one side in english and the other in french. Some side-effects include: cataracts. I can't wrap my head around that one. As I've said, I only have one sighted eye, and the prospect of developing cataracts, the implication of going 'totally blind', at the age of 20-something, is not appealing. In practice, that's not remotely likely to happen, so I keep taking the drug. It's a stroke of luck that I'm fluently bilingual so that I can get anxious in two languages. I worry about the consequences of not following medical orders. I spend a lot of my time concerned with the personal/political consequences of ingesting XYZ food or media product. I feel so porous, affected by everything I consume, medicine included. When it comes to medical orders, I follow them critically. That is to say, I follow them. I do not presume to know how to balance my body's chemical load better than my MDs. I feel how the variety of medications affect me, but currently lack knowledge about their biological functioning or alternatives that may exist in non-western traditions. I know this: a Normal amount of blood platelets is 150'000-300'000 per microliter of blood, and my counts in 2019 fluctuated between 9'000 and 427'000 platelets per microliter. When I do what I'm told, they stabilize; when I forget to take meds, omit to fill a prescription, or otherwise live life counter to medical recommendations, they plummet. So, each evening, I take a small orange pill marked 50mg, and a white one marked 25mg of the same.
