---
title: "Blood Test in Pandemic"
date: "2020-06-23"
layout: "posts"
---

Biking west along side roads, I whiffed the hospital complex from two blocks away. Industrial cleanser reached my nose through the mask. Down the street I lock up, walk the final 50 feet to the CHUM. People cluster as we attempt to form a line and follow the signposted instructions. Disinfect hands. Everyone's masked. Security guards mill about, and a nondescript hospital employee guides people where they need to go. "Do you have an appointment? Where are you headed?" Centre Intégré de Cancérologie, 14th floor, blood test. "Oh, you know you have a separate entrance and elevators right? Here, come with me. By coming in that way, you won't have to pass through the entire hospital and touch stuff that's supposedly disinfected even though no one really cleans it." Pondering the horror of her last statement I say thank you and make my way through to the Oncology-Elevators, disinfecting hands again though I haven't touched anything. Two of us are whisked up in a socially-distanced elevator ride. Maximum occupancy of 4, one person in each corner, guarding a floor-sticker. Once I make it to the oncology ward in the sky, I am greeted by a nurse who asks me the usual symptom-probing-questions. The nurse's hands brush up against mine as she leans in to spray sanitizer, and my hands are disinfected once more despite still not having touched a thing but the straps to my bicycle helmet. I didn't even press the elevator buttons. A volunteer in a bow-tie walks me down the long waiting room to point out the blood-work reception desk, which has not moved in the 6 months since I was last here. One side of the rectangular hall is walls and doors, the other is windows and chairs. A few people in line in front of me, wait time is maybe 15 minutes. I use most of my time waiting to look out over mtl's skyline and the nearly-complete construction of the hospital's new wings. Nearby another patient sits down and reads a book: "the most beautiful quebecois poems". I glance back out the window and a small brown-speckled spider weaves its web across the glass. From where I'm standing it's bigger than the construction workers, bigger than the pedestrians, almost the size of the police cruiser two intersections away. Standing there, refusing to sit in a waiting-room chair, I wonder what all the poetry in the world is worth when compared to this single arachnid. One nurse handles both blood-work and desk-work while the receptionist is on break. When the receptionist comes back I notice she is 1 of 2 people I've seen so far not wearing a mask at the hospital. The other was a patient in this waiting room. As my blood is drawn I ask the nurse how many blood tests a day they're doing lately. "It depends, but a little over 100," which isn't much less than when I asked last year. My auto-immune system has been known eat away at platelets and bleed under its skin. When platelets are particularly low, I get acutely aware of my skin's surfaces and folds, distracted by specks of the outer world that brush up against it. Skin feels egg-albumin thin. The lightest pressure might bruise and the lightest scrape might tear. The circulatory system is a series of veinous corridors, highways, canals, transit arteries carrying blood along. Internal bleeding's a slow dissolving of venous layers melding into a contiguous ocean of blood. Carefully mapped out roads falling into disarray as in-betweens flood. Microscopic terror as a shortage of platelets leads to tidal waves overcoming the sea walls under maintained, decimated by an overzealous team of white blood cells. If this shows up to the naked eye at all, it's usually as 'petechiae'; tiny red pinpoints in the skin, little red-blue dots along the arms, the legs, around the groin. Mini-bruises. Even invisible illness is subject to sight. ITP's primary symptoms are: excessive bruising, bruising in excess of what one would’ve expected for the amount of trauma, or bruises that are totally unexplained. When my daily life is clinically asymptomatic, the blood work makes sure to rectify the notion that everything is normal. Platelet counts under the norm are my everyday and have been for 19 years. A normal amount of blood platelets is 150'000-300'000 per microliter of blood, and my counts in 2019 alone were between 9000 and 427'000. Can we stop counting anytime soon? Medicine is obsessed with blood. Put it under an electron microscope and find out just how its balance turns out. Break it down into categories for testing, count out with frightening exactitude just how much of this that and whatever else my body happened to contain at XX:YY on XYZ day. Who cares, doc? A haematologist's job is precisely to make sense of the minutiae contained within blood. Logic takes a crack at making sense of our lifeblood, and I can't help but laugh. My dear Dr., do you partake in the blood of christ? What do you make of that? What about blood magick, doc? How do you like you steaks? Do you ever go trapping, look a wild animal in the eye as you slaughter them with a knife? No, of course not, seeing as you won't bleed me yourself. Division of wage labour says that you tick boxes on a sheet, stamp a signature, and look at numbers on a screen after the nurse has relieved me of blood and the lab tech has scanned it. How come you didn't decide to be an accountant instead, doc? Must be because an accountant doesn't get to chemically re-balance human bodies and see how that turns out. Must be because an accountant's numbers are fictional abstractions while your numbers are anchored in blood. Blood money's real too, doc. Some accountants get to count up the numbers for their boss whose business it is to bleed people day in day out. Violence specialists. Stroke of a pen on a ledger, offshore, how's that different from a gunshot, doc? What if my blood were inside black skin instead, doc? Would the government still pay my bills? Maybe they would, just to see that sixty thousand dollars a year go to a multinational pharmaceutical company instead of social welfare. Attunement to lived bodies has shifted. Touch screams, loud, when the body feels unknown skin. Brushed up against a cashier's hand as they hand me a receipt, their mouth beyond the counter's plastic shielding. Our breaths shouldn't mingle, I'm wearing a mask and hopefully they are too. Surface boundaries are tricky. Skin keeps the blood in, but it doesn't keep the world out.
