---
title: "Dune So Far"
date: "2019-11-11"
---

The following post is full of rambling spoilers for the Dune saga (up to book 3), proceed only if that’s okay. Originally sent out via personal email.

This past summer I found the first tome in a community book box and devoured it. I’m now nearly done book 3 and just want to share some thoughts. Frank Herbert’s storytelling weaves together lines of political intrigue, existential questioning, meditations on planetary ecology, and, of course, good old ultraviolence. And let’s not forget casual sexism and exoticism of non-western cultures. You know, all the usual stuff you’d encounter in any 20th century epic written by a white man. The purpose of this current email? Just sharing, not trying to form any coherent critique of what is apparently the best selling sci-fi of all time.

In brief: Dune is a sweeping political drama set tens of thousands of years in the future, taking place over many human lifetimes, tracing the tides of power along ever-increasing stakes in an outsized universe-spanning empire. The saga chronicles a civilization which has banned all forms of computers, or "thinking machines", but has also developed advanced technology and mental and physical abilities. Filled to the brim with anti-heroes, no character is fully known to me as reader in spite of the 3rd person omniscient narration. Arrakis, Dune, is the desert planet from which the series takes its name, and is only home to the Spice Melange: source of long life and prescience. Atreides, Harkonnen, Corrino: Great Feudal Houses vying for political-economic dominance. Bene Gesserit: a sisterhood of witches always on the sidelines of power. The Ultimate goal: total prescience, control over the future, endless knowledge of the depths of the past.

There’s a lot going on. So what? What is it about page after page of intrigue at an ever-expanding scale that keeps me turning pages? The answer is prose. Throughout the saga there have regularly been series of words which strike right to the core of my own concerns with life & death—isn’t that what reading (and, tangentially, writing) is all about? So far Herbert has managed to create an entrancing world, the scope of which I’m nowhere near fully grasping, all the while making his characters grapple with some of my favourite Big Questions. For instance: What is the purpose of religion in society? How do we govern? Does power corrupt? Is one’s own body knowable at a cellular level? How do we experience time? How do we remain adaptable in the face of adversity? Part of the appeal is that after all these pages I still have no idea where the story is headed. Through the world building and multitudes of conflicting viewpoints, the development of character motivations and the tension of conversation, the prose drives the story ever onward in a manner that’s anything but straightforward.

One of the central themes that resonates with me the most is the author’s fascination with the function of time in human life. The ducal heir turned living deity Paul Atreides aka Muad'dib, the messiah, is at the crux of this. Through drinking a concoction of poisonous spice melange, he gains access to perfect knowledge of the future and is unable to stray from his _vision_. In essence, he locks his universe into his own prescient knowledge of the future. Everyone’s free will is in fact just going through the motions of a universe always already dictated by Paul’s prescience. From his isolated desert planet, Paul defeats the Padishah Emperor Shaddam IV and negotiates for a wedding of their houses in exchange for peace and power. The result? A universe-wide hostile religious takeover of the empire in the name of Paul Muad'dib Atreides, newly ascended to the position of Emperor.

In Dune Messiah, Paul loses his eyes when exposed to nuclear radiation during combat, and continues to see the people and things around him in all-knowing detail. Muad'dib knows the future, does everything in his power to avoid its terrible (read: genocidal) path, and fails. Let’s take a minute to examine the disability angle here. Herbert is creating an omniscient human deity whose prescience overcomes even physical blindness within a world where the blind are sent into the desert to perish. The myth of Paul Muad'dib is blown out of proportion when he willingly walks into the desert alone (to his death????). Here we have a character whose knowledge of Time is so complete and total that he no longer needs sight to orient himself in the world. Paul chooses to forego prosthetic eyes (but orders that his radiation-blind soldiers be equipped with them). He is described as moving in ways that are characteristically not blind. He looks directly at people, has a sureness of motion, even flies a helicopter across the desert. I’m struggling to figure out how I feel about this use of blindness in narrative. Disability in text is often a narrative crutch that the author throws in to make a shallow point about the character. i.e “the messiah is blind but he SEES”. I suppose that is in fact what’s happening here. A generation later, a blind Prophet appears on Dune, denouncing the mechanisms of power that have been harnessed in the name of Muad'dib. The kicker? This prophet is Paul, not that anyone in the book knows that for sure, except for his equally mystical sister Alia, the Unborn, now Regent of the empire, who has fallen prey to possession by the ghost of their diabolical grandfather whose consciousness resides within her genetic code. And that’s where I’m at right now.
